Best practice compliance recording (#208)
cncf/cnf-wg: cbpps/0003-exceptions.md

<!-- Created from CBPP template v1.0
     Major: changes when we add or remove sections or demands for information
     Minor: changes when we alter formatting without changing content requirements
     Keep the first line of this comment in your best practice,
     to help us track formatting updates -->

# **CBPP-NNNN: Your short, descriptive title (TEMPLATE)**

- [Release Signoff Checklist](#release-signoff-checklist)
- [Summary](#summary)
- [Motivation](#motivation)
  - [Goals](#goals)
  - [Non-Goals](#non-goals)
- [Proposal](#proposal)
- [Workload Context](#workload-context)
  - [User Stories (Optional)](#user-stories-optional)
    - [Story 1](#story-1)
    - [Story 2](#story-2)

>   - [Notes/Constraints/Caveats (Optional)](#notesconstraintscaveats-optional)

Reviewer: Should this be not at a sub-level?
Also, should this be required? I strongly suggest that.

Reviewer 2: @pgoyal01 make a suggest edit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [Notes/Constraints/Caveats (Mandatory)](#notesconstraintscaveats-mandatory)
```

Reviewer 3: This suggestion makes more sense to change in the original template. Open a new PR in other issue.

  - [References](#references)
  - [Alternatives (Optional)](#drawbacksalternatives)
- [Test Plan](#test-plan)
- [Scoring](#scoring)
- [Implementation History](#implementation-history)

## **Release Signoff Checklist**

Items marked with (R) are required for the proposed best practice to be included in a release.

- [ ] (R) CBPP approvers have approved the CBPP status as `implementable`
- [ ] (R) CBPP summary, motivation and best practice details are appropriately documented
- [ ] (R) Test plan is in place, giving consideration to CNF Test Suite input
- [ ] (R) Scoring has been determined
- [ ]   "Implementation History" section is up-to-date

> - [ ]    Supporting documentation—e.g., additional design documents, links to mailing list discussions/SIG meetings, relevant PRs/issues, release notes

Reviewer 3: nit
```suggestion
- [ ]    Supporting documentation — e.g., additional design documents, links to mailing list discussions/SIG meetings, relevant PRs/issues, release notes
```

## **Summary**

> CNFs should be compliant with applicable best practices, and ops processes

Reviewer: Don't both the CNF and the operational processes have to be compliant and, thus, have to be validated for compliance with the best practices?

> should be validated for compliance with them.  However, compliance is a

Reviewer: @iawells @taylor 
```suggestion
should be validated for compliance with them.  As compliance is a
```

> journey, and we expect end users to start with little compliance and

Reviewer: I don't think it is "end users" compliance but the artifacts (CNFs, and associated processes including operational processes) that need to be compliant. 

Maybe this sentence, starting from the previous line should read (I don't believe "However" is appropriate):
"As compliance is a journey, we expect that the CNF's and operational processes will improve compliance over time, starting with limited or no compliance, progressing to a high degree and eventually full compliance."

Reviewer 2: @pgoyal01 do a suggest edit and tag @iawells please

Reviewer: @iawells @taylor 
```suggestion
journey, we expect that the CNFs and operational processes will
```

> improve over time.

Reviewer: @iawells @taylor 
```suggestion
improve compliance over time, starting with limited or no compliance, progressing to a high degree, and eventually full compliance.
```

> Compliance is most useful when users, auditors and so on can identify

Reviewer: "... auditors and so ..." -- is there a typo here with "so"?

Reviewer 2: @pgoyal01 I think that "so on" was communicating other parties similar to the users and auditors.  I have added a suggest edit along these lines.

> Compliance is most useful when users, auditors and so on can identify

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Compliance is most useful when users, auditors, and other interested parties can identify
```

Reviewer: @taylor that is great

> Compliance is most useful when users, auditors and so on can identify

Reviewer: @iawells @taylor 
```suggestion
Compliance is most useful when users, auditors, and others can identify
```

> exactly _how_ and _why_ you are compliant.  If they test your compliance,

Reviewer: should there be a "what level" of compliance?

> exactly _how_ and _why_ you are compliant.  If they test your compliance,

Reviewer: @taylor @iawells 
```suggestion
exactly _how_ , _why_ and at _what level_ you are compliant.  If they test your compliance,
```

and their tests flag problems, they can see that this is intentional, and

> they can find out why compliance is not possible.  They can see why you

Reviewer: should "... find out why compliance is not possible" be changed to the "why compliance is limited to only a certain level"?

Reviewer 2: @pgoyal01 this is about compliance with a specific single best practice.  It is not communicating how close or not close someone is to being compliant.

Reviewer: @taylor Thanks for the clarification. The best practice is, IMHO, non-atomic and hence my question.

chose not to be compliant and whether this non-compliance is acceptable to
them.  They can also review any mitigating steps you might propose for this
non-compliance or work out steps or their own.

> If your team builds a component used in NFV, or operates a component

Reviewer: typo
```suggestion
If your team builds a component used in an NFV, or operates a component
```

> If your team builds a component used in NFV, or operates a component

Reviewer 4: I do not understand why we are mentioning NFVs.  Perhaps this is a vocabulary issue but for me VNFs and CNFs are not the same.

Reviewer: @Smitholi67 NFV can be treated as a concept independent of the implementation

> of NFV, this document explains how you document your compliance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of an NFV, this document explains how you document your compliance
```

status.  We recommend you make this best practice a part of your
delivery process.  This should be the very first best practice you attempt
to comply with.

## **Motivation**

> Best practices do not always coincide with pragmatic design.  For whatever

Reviewer: The paragraph that follows is the "motivation" -- this paragraph is a "qualifier" to the "imperfect" in the last sentence. Hence, I suggest that we move this paragraph to be the second paragraph.

reason, a best practice may not be applicable to your circumstance; it
may be too expensive to implement; it may even be technologically
impossible based on other constraints.

Our task as a working group is to help CNF users do _better_, by painting a
picture of a perfect world and explaining how teams can progressively
take steps towards it.  We want to help people on the journey.  And during

> that journey, their components and processes will be imperfect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that journey, the components and processes may likely be imperfect.
```

By understanding that exceptions are going to exist, we make it possible
for teams to understand their shortcomings and document them.  Where
exceptions to specific best practices are frequent, this will also
feed back into improvements to our best practice recommendations.

### **Goals**

* Let users explain which best practices they are compliant with
* Communicate the level of compliance of individual parts of the system,

>   both software and process level

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  both at the software and process level
```

* Let users use CNF-WG best practices even if they cannot be compliant
  with every single recommendation
* Help users reduce the number of exceptions over time

### **Non-Goals**

* Providing a specific file format for the documentation
* Requiring extensive documentation of each element - we will keep
  required information to a minimum

> * Preventing delivery of components where non-compliance exists - we want

Reviewer: Can we make this the #1 Non-Goal?

Reviewer 3: This is a non-ordered list

  teams to be able to deliver components that are good enough, even if they

>   cannot be perfect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  are not perfect
```

Reviewer 2: @pgoyal01 there can be situations where something is not able to follow a best practice. That is different from not yet following a best practice

Reviewer: @taylor Thanks. Agre "are not" is incorrect in that situation. It is just "cannot" is associated with a follow-up "why not" and hence was looking for an alternate. We can resolve this conversation, for some reason I don't see an ability to do so.

> * Documenting processes for improving compliance - we recommend teams

Reviewer: Can we make this the #2 Non-Goal?

Reviewer 3: ditto line 89

>   regularly review their compliance list, but we do not mandate any specific

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  regularly review their compliance, but we do not mandate any specific
```

>   method and this will depend on the team and their working structure

Reviewer: if we are not specifying then it is implicit that it depends on the teams

```suggestion
  method or periodicity of reviews
```

## **Proposal**

We document a means of listing compliance and what elements should be
included in any record of non-compliance.

We describe when and how those lists should be shared and updated.

### Format examples

A simple machine-readable format might be a table in CSV format.  This
can contain the records described, and is conveniently machine-readable.

... example here ...

> Making machines conveniently machine-readable, such as records of compliance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Making records conveniently machine-readable, such as records of compliance
```

and non-compliance as simple booleans, helps consumers in filtering these
records and even building compliance checks into their acceptance tests.

> Similarly, using a standard encoded format for the CNF-WG best practice

Reviewer: "encoded" for "names"?
```suggestion
Similarly, using a standard format for the CNF-WG best practice
```
